- [Instructor] In the previous video,
we looked at ordering and limiting results
in order to prepare ourselves to actually do paging.
And paging is construct within JBC,
and really, all database operations whereby we limit
the amount of data we return from the database
in a given slice.
That way, if we only need to see the first page,
we only see that.
But if we do need see the tenth page,
then we can slice through that data.
It provides a much more efficient mechanism
by getting data to the customer,
as opposed to giving them all the data at once.
So let's take a look in Postgres, how to implement paging.
So what I want you to do is jump back in your ID.
Now I do want to reiterate here,
this is how you can do paging and Postgres.
There is more than one way to do paging,
and there's more than one way to do it across databases.
This works for Postgres,
and this is a pattern that I've utilized many times over.
So, I'm going to show you my pattern for paging,
and you can expand on it as you wish.
The idea and concepts, however, will still be the same.
So let's open up our project.
Go to source, main, Java,
our base package and our customer DAO.
Well, the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to take the
SQL statement that we wrote in the previous video,
and we're going to copy and paste it.
Now, obviously, we need to make a couple changes to it.
So the first thing we're going to do is change the limit
to paged.
And then at the end of our method,
after the limit, we're going to do an offset
with a question mark.
And offset, as you might imagine,
offset's where we actually do the query from.
So, let's scroll down to our method.
And once again, we can copy our method,
which is not the best way to write code,
but for this purpose, it works.
We will paste it.
And we need to change the name, so we will get all paged.
We're going to pass it the limit still,
but we're also going to pass it the page number.
Now, we need to actually manipulate this page number
in order to know which one we're working with.
So let's do that next.
So, we will do an int offset
equals.
And what I'm going to do is page number minus one,
and that's because usually we think of page number
starting at one and not zero based indexes.
So this way we can manipulate
from a page number that makes sense to a human,
but convert it to a zero-based index,
which is what we need in code.
So we're going to take that times our limit.
Now this, of course, is going to assume
that we always have a consistent limit passed in.
If you start manipulating the limits between calls,
that's going to mess things up,
but that doesn't really make sense
from an application standpoint, either.
So if we have a finite set limit,
then our page number methodology will always work.
Now we'll leave in most of our logic here.
I do want to add in one thing.
We need to change our name
to get all paged,
but after we do that.
So, we're going to say if limit is less than one,
our limit
equals 10.
That way we get a default limit,
which is something I didn't have before,
but I probably should have added to begin with.
So we'll do a statement.setInt.
Two will be our offset.
And now we're ready to actually run our query.
So let's go back to our executer
and you'll see before,
we got 20 names and we printed them all out.
Let's now make a little change here.
We're going to do a system.out.printline,
and we're going to simply say paged
so we know where we start.
And we're going to do a simple loop.
I equals one.
I is less than three.
I plus plus.
And we will do a system.out.printline,
and we are going to say we are on page number,
pass out our page, which is going to be I in this case.
And then we will call into our customer DAO,
.findallpaged.
And we're going to send in a limit of 10
and a page number equal to I.
And then once again,
we'll do a for each on that
and we'll do our system.out
print line.
Okay, so now we can run our method.
Now what I want you to do,
we're going to scroll up in our return here.
So you'll see that we got 20 names to begin with.
Started with Brandon Adams and ended with Marilyn Andrews.
And down below,
we start with Brandon Adams on page number one,
and on page number two, we end with Marilyn Andrews.
So all of our data is there.
we've got 20 records to begin with.
We've got two pages of 10 to continue
after we've done our paging.
And you can look at any individual name
and find its correlation.
So we can look here at the very end of page number one,
customer 984, followed by customer 1080
on the very beginning of the second page.
So if we scroll back up here,
you'll see we have customer 984 followed by 1080,
which is 10 and 11.
Again, as we would expect.
So, this is a little bit different way to get your data.
It provides you a nice contract for only returning the data
that you're going to work with.
There are many systems
where your customer is only going to look at the first page.
They're never going to go to the second or third page
in an ideal use case,
so there's no reason to retrieve all that data
from the database.
This gives you a much more efficient operation,
but it does come with some overhead
because now we've got two way communication back and forth
every time we need to go back and get the next page.
So, if they're always going to the third and fourth page,
you might want to make your page sizes bigger
or consider other alternatives to getting your data back.
But the reality is that this is used all over the place,
and even more so, is that it's implemented differently
in every database.
So while I showed you one methodology,
I want to reiterate that this is different
for every database,
not only how the offset function works,
because there isn't an offset in every database,
but how the actual database keeps track of the cursor.
In Oracle databases, for instance, you have a row number
that you can do very similar techniques
using that row number.
Each database is different, look it up.
But the concept of paging and sorting is all the same.